Hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture and this lecture
is all about the DynamoDB On-Demand capacity pricing option.
So let's get started.
At re:Invent 2018,
they introduced a new pricing option for DynamoDB,
so in addition to the provisioned through-put model
which we've already talked about,
where you specify your read and write capacity units,
they have also introduced
this On-Demand capacity pricing model as well.
So with On-Demand capacity, charges will apply for
reading, writing and storing your data
but the difference is, with On-Demand
you don't need to specify your capacity requirements.
So you don't need to specify your read and write
capacity unit requirements.
DynamoDB will instantly scale up and down
based on the activity of your application.
So based on the number of reads and writes
that your application is making to the database
and this is gonna be really great
for unpredictable workloads.
So for example, if you don't know
the capacity requirements of your application,
if your application traffic is difficult to predict,
or your workload has large spikes which are short lived,
or if it's a brand new application
where the workload is not really very well understood
and it's also really good if you only want to pay
for what you use, when you use it,
so a pay per request model.
And this is going to be great for server-less stacks
which have that pay per use pricing model.
So I know what you're thinking,
"Which pricing model should I use?"
Well for workloads where you have
unpredictable application traffic,
you don't know what the workload's going to look like,
if you want a per per use model, so for example,
if the rest of your stack is server-less
and you're paying per use for everything else,
or if you have spikey and short lived peaks,
then under those circumstances,
you should go for the On-Demand capacity.
However, if you have predictable application traffic,
you can easily forecast your
read and write capacity requirements
or if your application traffic is consistent
or it's increasing gradually,
then under those circumstances
it's more cost effective to use the provision to capacity.
And you can actually change your DynamoDB table
from provision to capacity, to On-Demand once per day.
So they actually let you switch between
the two pricing models.
Now this new On-Demand option,
it was only introduced right at the end of November
so it was announced at re:Invent 2018
and they do wait at least six months
before introducing a new feature into the exams.
And in practice, it can be much longer than six months
before they actually update the exams.
So right now, we don't think
this is going to feature in the exam in any detail
but it's just good to be aware of
when you are designing your DynamoDB tables.
So that's the end of this lecture,
if you have any questions, please let me know,
if not, feel free to move onto the next lecture, thank you.