Hello cloud gurus and welcome
to this lecture and this lecture
is all about DynamoDB provisioned throughput.
And provisioned throughput is the mechanism
that we use to define the capacity
and performance requirements in DynamoDB.
So let's get started, so DynamoDB provisioned throughput
is measured in capacity units.
And when you create your table assuming
you're not using auto scaling,
you need to specify your requirements
in terms of read capacity units and write capacity units
and one write capacity unit is equal
to one one kilobyte write per second.
And one read capacity unit is equal
to one strongly consistent read
of four kilobytes per second
or two eventually consistent reads
of four kilobytes per second
and eventually consistent reads all the default.
So let's have a look at an example configuration.
So think of a table with five read capacity units
and five write capacity units configured.
And this configuration will be able
to perform five four kilobytes strongly consistent reads,
which equals 20 kilobytes per second,
it will be able to perform twice
as many eventually consistent reads per second.
So that would be 40 kilobytes per second.
And it will be able to perform five one kilobyte writes
per second which equals five kilobytes per second.
Now, if your application reads or writes larger items,
it's going to consume more capacity units,
and it will cost you more as well
because the price goes up the more read
and write capacity units you are provisioning.
So let's have a look at how we calculate
the requirements, how we work out how many read
or write capacity units you gonna need for your application.
So imagine you have an application,
and it needs to read 80 items or table rows per second.
And each item is three kilobytes in size.
And you need strongly consistent reads.
First of all, you need to calculate
how many read capacity units are needed for each read.
So the way we do that is we take the size
of each item and divide it by four kilobytes.
So three divided by four is 0.75,
round that up to the nearest whole number.
So each read is going to need
one read capacity unit per read operation.
And then we simply multiply
that by the number of reads per second.
So in this case, 80 reads per second.
So that's gonna be 80 read capacity units required
the strongly consistent reads.
But what about eventually consistent reads?
Well, you do exactly the same calculation.
However, as this is for eventually consistent reads
and you get two four kilobyte rates per second
with eventually consistent, which is double the throughput
of strongly consistent, just take your calculation
for the strongly consistent reads,
and you can just divide it by two.
So we take the size of each item divided
by four kilobytes, three divided by four
is point seven five, rounded up
to the nearest whole number is one,
then multiply that by the number of reads per second
is 80 divide it by two because you get double
the throughput for eventually consistent.
So that means you only need 40 read capacity units for
eventually consistent reads for this example,
but what about write capacity units?
Well, just imagine you want to write 100 items per second
into your table and each item is 512 bytes in size.
So firstly, you would calculate
how many capacity units are needed for each write.
So the size of each item divided
by one kilobyte for write capacity units.
So that's 512 bytes divided by one kilobyte equals 0.5,
round that up to the nearest whole number.
So each write will need one write capacity unit
per write operation, and then multiply
that by the number of rights per second.
So that's 100 write capacity units required in this example.
So let's have a look at some of our exam tips.
So it's really important to understand read
and write capacity units and it's important
to know how to do those calculations as well
because if you do get asked in the exam,
it will be really easy marks
if you know how to do the calculation.
So just remember provisioned throughput
is measured in capacity units.
One write capacity unit
is one one kilobyte write per second.
One read capacity unit is one four kilobyte
strongly consistent rate or two four kilobyte
eventually consistent reads per second.
So that is the end of this lecture.
As I said, it's really important to understand
how to do those calculations.
So it's definitely worth doing our quizzes
and doing our tests and making sure
that you fully understand how to do those calculations.
But if you have any questions, please let me know.
If not please feel free
to move on to the next lecture, thank you.