Okay, hello Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
This is the very last lecture before our summary lecture
and we're going to cover off Advanced API Gateways.
So we covered it off at a very basic level.
There's a few more things you need to know about API Gateway
before you go in and do your exams,
and the very first one is that you can import APIs,
so you can use the API Gateway Import feature and
basically you can import Swagger 2.0 definition files.
So you can either create a new API by submitting a
POST request that includes a Swagger definition
in the payload and endpoint configuration,
or you can update an existing API by using a PUT request
that contains a Swagger definition file in the payload.
And you can update an API by overwriting it
with a new definition, or merge a definition
with an existing API.
And you just specify the options
using a mode query parameter in the request URL.
Let's have a look at how we do this in the AWS Console.
So here I am in the AWS Console, just go over to Services
and we want API Gateway which is going to be
under our Network and Content Delivery
and then if we want to go ahead and create a new API
just hit Create API, and you can see here that
we can import from a Swagger file.
So you can open up your Swagger file and paste it in here,
or you could go ahead and select it.
And then you basically just go forward and
configure it as usual.
So if you do have a Swagger file, go ahead and try that,
I am not going to go through it in a lot of detail,
most important thing going into your exam is just
to remember you can import existing APIs
using Swagger files.
Moving on to API throttling, so Amazon do throttle
API Gateway, and they throttle it two different ways.
The API gateway limits the steady-state request limit
to 10,000 requests per second, or RPS.
So you can only have 10,000 requests per second
on your API gateway, and the maximum number of
current requests is 5,000 requests, and this is
across all APIs within an AWS account.
So you can either do 10,000 over once second, or
5,000 concurrent requests, so at the very same time.
If you go over the 10,000 requests per second or
5,000 concurrent requests, then you're going to receive
a 429 Too Many Request error response.
So let's have a look at some examples.
In example one, we've got 10,000 requests in one second,
but it's spread over the period evenly, so 10 requests
every millisecond, and API Gateway will process all those
requests without dropping any,
because you are allowed 10,000 in one second.
If the caller sends 10,000 requests in the
first millisecond, API Gateway is only going to serve
5,000 of that, because you can only
have 5,000 concurrent requests.
If a caller submits 5,000 requests in the first millisecond
and then evenly spreads another 5,000 requests
through the remaining 999 milliseconds, then API Gateway
will process all the 10,000 requests
in the one second period without returning a 429.
So just remember 5,000 concurrent requests, or
10,000 requests per second.
And then finally, you can use API Gateway as
SOAP web service passthrough, so if you do have
an older SOAP XML API that you've created
maybe with your legacy company, you can definitely
configure API Gateway to communicate with that service.
The steps on how to do it, there's a blog here,
I'll put it in the link below.
Again, it is beyond the scope of this course,
you just need to understand for the exam, that yes,
it is possible, and if you want to find out how to do it,
go check out that blog.
So, what are my exam tips?
Like I just said, Import APIs using
Swagger 2.0 definition files, API Gateway can be throttled,
and your default limits are 10,000 requests per second,
or 5,000 concurrently, and you can configure API Gateway
as a SOAP Webservice passthrough.
By the way, if you want to lift those throttling limits,
you can do that inside API Gateway as well,
but you are obviously going to incur further charges,
so just be aware of that.
So that is it for all the theory and
labs for this section of the course.
In the very next lecture, we are just going to cover off
everything we've learnt and then you're ready to move on.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next lecture, thank you.