Hello Cloud Gurus, and welcome to this lecture.
This is one of my favorite lectures
and in this lecture we're going to go ahead
and create our own Alexa skill, we're also
going to use the AWS Polly Service to go in and go,
basically transcribe our notes into MP3 files.
We're going to host these MP3 files in S3,
and then we're going to use Alexa to stream our MP3 files,
and we'll be using the Serverless Application Repository.
Now, this is all very hands-on,
so it's going to teach you how to use
the Serverless Application Repository,
and how easy it is to build out Alexa skills.
So hopefully you have an awful lot of fun,
before we go on to the lecture,
let's just have a look at how Alexa works.
So this is an Amazon Echo,
Amazon Echo is the name of the hardware for Alexa,
and essentially you just go in and you say to your Echo,
"Alexa, turn on Welcome Home"
or "Alexa, turn on my chill music"
or "Alexa, turn on the TV" et cetera, et cetera.
Now, in terms of the way it works
I like to use the example of an iPhone,
and an iPhone is the hardware, Siri is the voice service.
So with your Amazon Echo,
that is the actual physical hardware,
and Alexa is the voice service.
So that is the way it works,
so sometimes people use Echo and Alexa interchangeably,
but technically speaking,
Echo is the hardware and Amazon Alexa is the voice service.
And you can also change the hardware up,
so you can use Raspberry Pi's,
you can use here the Amazon Echo,
you can use Amazon Fire TV,
we've got Echo Dots, we've got Echo Shows,
and basically the hardware is becoming more,
and more prevalent,
so you can have multiple different devices,
but they're all using the same voice service.
They're all sending information to the AWS Cloud,
and AWS uses Automatic Speech Recognition,
and Natural Language Understanding to translate
what you're saying into text,
so it's doing a text-to-speak translation,
and essentially what this is then going on to do,
is to go on and trigger a Lambda function.
So literally, every single time you use the Amazon Echo
in your home, you are speaking directly to Lambda,
and Lambda is talking back to you.
So in terms of how we actually go and build out our skills,
we always start with Lambda,
so we go in and create our Lambda functions, so we're
going to be using the Serverless Application Repository
and sometimes this is referred to as the Skill Service,
so this is one-half of our, of creating our skill,
then we have to go in and configure the Skill Interface,
and this is where we can figure things like
Invocation Names, Intense Schemas, Slot Types,
Utterances, et cetera.
Now we're only going to do this once
and it's beyond the scope of this course,
in order to learn how to do all this.
We do have some Alexa courses on the A CLoud Guru platform,
and we will have a certification course coming out
on the A Cloud Guru platform,
because there is a new Alexa Specialty Cert.
So let's go ahead and get started,
and log-in to the AWS Console.
Okay so here we are in the AWS Management Console,
the first thing we want to do is just go ahead
and create an S3 bucket.
So we're going to go ahead and create a bucket,
I'm going to call it acloudgurupolly2019
something like that.
And I'm going to go ahead and hit create,
and that already exist so I'll call it,
acloudgurupollyassets2019
and go ahead and hit created,
and that has now created my bucket.
And here, I'm going to click in here,
I'm going to go edit my public access settings
so we do want to make this bucket public,
so I'm going to go ahead and just type confirm,
and then we're going to go and give it a bucket policy,
making everything inside it public,
so let's click in here, go to our permissions,
and go to our bucket policy,
and this will be available in the resources section
of the course, just go ahead and copy that
into your clipboard and then we're going to paste it in here
and then we're just going to change the resource ARN,
and we're going to grab our ARN from here,
so just copy that into your clipboard
and then go over to here, and paste it in,
and go ahead and hit save.
Straight away you'll be able to see that the UI has changed,
saying, hey everything in this bucket is now public.
So we're going to use this bucket to store our MP3 files
and we're going to, basically, take some notes
and then generate MP3 files using the Polly Service.
So go ahead and copy that into your clipboard,
this is the ARN for the bucket,
actually you just need the bucket name,
I don't think you need the ARN,
so just copy the bucket name into your clipboard.
And then what we're going to do, we're going
to go over to services and we're going to go down
and find the Polly Service,
so the Polly Service can be found under machine learning,
and you'll see Amazon Polly in here,
and in here we can go and listen to this.
Now I don't know if you're going to be able to hear this,
but,
"I will read any text you type here"
So you can put in any text and it'll play it out.
So I'm going to, cause I'm Australian in going to go over to
Australian, and I like Russell,
so I'm going to put Russell in here,
and then what I want you to do
is just paste some notes in here.
So I'm on the EC2 landing page,
you can write your own notes,
I'm just going to copy this into my clipboard
and go back over here, going to paste this in here.
So we, basically it's just saying,
"Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud,
EC2 is web service that provides..."
I'm not going to read the whole thing to you,
and then what I'm going to do,
is going to go down and click, synthesize to S3,
and in here I'm going to type in my bucket name,
so it's acloudgurupollyassets
2019,
and I'm just going to maximize this
and I'm going to go ahead and hit synthesize,
and so that has now created a task to synthesize this text
into an MP3 file,
and if we go down to our S3 Synthesis Task
you'll be able to see here, that one is scheduled,
and this is one that I did earlier
and that has now completed.
So it does take a little bit of time,
it can take a couple of minutes, if you just hit refresh,
there you go, it actually took only a few seconds,
so that has now completed the task.
If we go back over to S3,
we'll be able to see that MP3 file,
which is sitting in our public bucket,
and there it is, there.
Now what we want to do is create an Alexa skill
that will start playing these MP3 files,
so you'll basically be able to say,
"Hey Alexa, open Study Buddy" or something like that,
and then it will read you out a random AWS fact,
so it'll help you be able to study.
So let's go over to services, and what we're going to do is,
we're going to go over to Lambda,
and we're going to go and create a Lambda function.
Now I would do this in Northern Virginia if I was you,
you need to do this in a region where
the Alexa's triggers are enabled,
and they're only in certain regions around the world,
I think it's, definitely, Northern Virginia and Ireland,
I think there's one in Sydney,
but basically you need to do it in a region where
the Alexa trigger is enabled.
So I'm going to do this in Northern Virginia,
I'm going to go ahead and create my function,
now you could go over to Blueprints and type in Alexa,
but if you do that you'll see that they all say,
Please use the Alexa-Skills-Node-JS-Facts Skill,
from the Serverless Application Repository,
and it just says that for most of these skills.
So let's use the Serverless Application Repository
and these are basically Serverless Applications
published by AWS, as well as AWS Partners,
and other developers,
and you can just use them for free,
you don't need to know how to go ahead and program,
you can see there's today, right now, there's 434.
And what we're going to do is we're going to use
the Alexa Skills-Kit-Node-JS-Facts Skills,
so we're going to select this one
and then what we're going to do,
is we're going to just leave everything as default,
in here we've got our permissions,
we don't need to really do anything here,
so we're just going to go ahead and hit deploy,
and this will deploy our Alexa skill to Lambda
and then that's it really, all we need is the ARN,
and then we can go ahead and connect this up
to the developer.amazon.com.
So in here you can see your applications being deployed,
if you go ahead and click on Lambda right now
I've got 0 Lambda functions,
but if I go back and just go back into Lambda
or you could just refresh your page,
eventually you'll see that the service has been deployed,
and there we go, that has now been deployed,
and this is basically,
I think it's probably using CloudFormation
to deploy this out.
So let's go ahead and click in here,
and we'll be able to see our functions,
and you can see that we've got the Alexa Skills Kit
as a trigger, so that's because this region supports
the Alexa Skills Kit as a trigger.
If we scroll down to our IDE we'll be able to see our code,
now you can go in and customize this,
essentially this is the message that is going to read out
so it's, here's your fact, and then it will,
this is your help message so if you get stuck it will say,
"Hey you can tell me a space fact" et cetera, et cetera,
this is a re-prompt, so basically if you invoke the skill
and then you just stay silent,
it'll say, "Hey what can I help you with"
and then when you say, "Stop"
it'll say, "Goodbye"
and these are your facts here,
so it's randomly going to choose one of these lines
and it is completely random, and you can add more,
just make sure that you use these,
you basically use this exact format,
so you could go in here and go copy,
and then you just add it to the very bottom,
you go paste and then let's just add my name
as a random fact.
And we actually use this for all kinds of purposes,
like if we have a raffle, we just put peoples names in,
so in fact, in AWS this week,
we have competitions at the end of every week,
and basically if you answer a really hard question
on our Facebook page, you could win Guru Of The Week,
Guru Of The Week is where you get a free sticker,
a hand signed card, and t-shirt out to you in the post,
and then you're in the drawer to win a free ticket
to re:Invent, and at the,
when we do the draw for re:Invent, we use this exact skill,
and we just put every single person's name in here,
as different line, and then we ask Alexa to pick one,
and that's how we draw the winner to re:Invent.
So it is completely random,
so we use this skill personally, as well.
So that is it, I'm just going to go ahead and hit save,
and so that has now saved our skill,
and the only thing you really need to take note of
is our ARN, we're going to need that,
so just hit that icon and you're going to need that
to be able to create your skill.
So I need you to go over to developer.amazon.com,
need you to sign up for a Developer account,
if you do have an Alexa device,
make sure you use the same email that is registered
to your Alexa device, because then you'll be able to,
literally, use this skill straight away,
so go over to developer.amazon.com.
Okay, so I've signed into developer.amazon.com,
I'm going to go ahead and hit on Amazon Alexa,
and I'm going to click up here and go over to my skills,
I'm going to into my Alexa console, and I'm going to go
ahead and create a skill.
And what's really cool is we can give this skill a name,
so we'll call it, My Study Buddy,
something like that, My Study Buddy.
The default language, if you are in the UK or Australia,
or wherever, make sure you change this to match
the default language on your Alexa device.
So if you are using the Australian one,
or the UK one, change it.
If you want to keep everything simple,
change your Alexa over to US,
English US, I'm going to leave this as default,
my Alexa is on English US,
and then we're just going to do custom and self-hosted,
so that's already selected so all you need to do
is click up here and go create skill,
that will then go ahead and create our skill,
and what's really cool is you can choose a template
and we've already used the Serverless Application Repository
for a fact skill, and in here we just need to click in this
and that's it, go ahead and hit choose,
it is seriously that simple.
In here, this is the Alexa Development Console,
again if you want to learn more about this
we do have an entire course on Alexa,
in here we've got the Invocation,
so what's the invocation name,
right now it says Space Facts,
I'm going to call it Cloud,
yeah let's do Cloud Facts,
something like that, that might be easy.
And then we're going to go down
and we're going to go ahead and save our model,
before we build our model,
the only other thing we need to do is go to our end point,
and in here this is where we give our,
our skill the ARN,
the Lambda ARN,
so just paste it in there,
whoops,
and so this is basically pointing our skill
to our Lambda function.
Once you've done that hit, save Endpoints,
then go back over to your, GetNewFactIntent,
you don't need to add anything in here
but these are your sample utterances.
So you say, "Hey Alexa ask cloud facts" "A fact"
or "A space fact"
we might want to change this to "A cloud fact"
in fact, let's add that in,
a cloud fact,
and going to hit, plus,
and that adds it to our utterances.
So an utterance is just a way of saying something,
so I'm going to go ahead and save our model,
and then we're going to go ahead and build our model,
now the build will take a little bit of time,
I'm just going to pause the video because it takes
a couple of minutes, but as soon as it's built
you'll see a little notification down here,
saying that it's done.
And you can see down here that the build is now successful,
if I could go over to test, I should be able to test this,
and we're just going to turn the test on to Development
and that will allow us to test,
and then what we can do is say, "Open Cloud Facts"
I think it's "Cloud Fact" let's have a look.
Here's your fact, Jupiter has the shortest day
of all the planets.
So it is definitely working,
and over here you can see this is the input
and then this is the output,
this is our Lambda function talking back to us,
and you can see that it has speak,
so it's sort of like HTML and that,
it's actually called SSML,
which stands for Synthesis Speech Markup Language,
so you speak, here's your fact,
Jupiter has the shortest day of all the planets,
and it got that from our Lambda function.
If we go back over here what we can do is,
we can just go through and delete all these other facts,
so if I just go in and delete that.
So I've only got one fact now, if I hit save
and then I go back over to my Developer Console,
sorry it's over here, and I say,
let's open Cloud Fact again,
it should just read out by now.
Here's your fact, Ryan Kroonenburg.
There we go, it just read out my name.
So the last thing we want to do,
is we want to, essentially, point our fact to our S3 bucket,
to our MP3 file that Polly just generated.
So to do that, let's go over to services,
and we'll go over to S3,
and then all you want to do is click on the bucket
so acloudgurupollyassets, click in here,
and just grab this URL, so copy that into your clipboard,
then we want to go back over to our Lambda function
and we're just going to go in here
and we're going to add one little edit,
so in here, if we scroll all the way down,
I'll just scroll up so it's easy to see,
we've got, we've got our data in here.
So instead of saying Ryan Kroonenburg,
let's go ahead and paste our link in here,
now to make it talk you can see there's an example here,
so it's audio SRC and then the link,
this is a super useful reference guide
to doing stuff with Alexa, so I'm going to leave this
in the resource section of the course.
So I've got our URL in here, all we now need to do
is go audio, and then source, and then equals,
then we're going to do our double-quotations
and then a forward-slash,
sorry back-slash, and then we go all the way to the end,
and then another back-slash then end-quotations,
and then forward-slash, and then close it out.
And so then we're going to go ahead and hit save,
and that is now saved, let's go ahead and test this.
So if we go over to here we can go in and just say,
"Open cloud fact"
and hit enter,
and that should...
00:15:20.691 --> 00:15:22.810
00:15:22.810 --> 00:15:26.170
00:15:26.170 --> 00:15:27.780
00:15:27.780 --> 00:15:30.470
00:15:30.470 --> 00:15:34.020
00:15:34.020 --> 00:15:35.240
00:15:35.240 --> 00:15:37.951
00:15:37.951 --> 00:15:40.740
00:15:40.740 --> 00:15:43.900
00:15:43.900 --> 00:15:46.870
00:15:46.870 --> 00:15:48.950
00:15:48.950 --> 00:15:51.860
00:15:51.860 --> 00:15:53.790
00:15:53.790 --> 00:15:55.290
00:15:55.290 --> 00:15:57.320
00:15:57.320 --> 00:15:59.580
00:15:59.580 --> 00:16:01.970
00:16:01.970 --> 00:16:03.420
00:16:03.420 --> 00:16:04.880
00:16:04.880 --> 00:16:06.950
00:16:06.950 --> 00:16:07.783
00:16:07.783 --> 00:16:10.200