Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to the very last lecture
in this section of the course.
So this is the serverless summary.
So let's go through all our exam tips,
and we'll start with Lambda.
So remember that Lambda scales out and not up,
so you scale it out automatically.
So this just simply means that you can have
many many different concurrent Lambda functions
running at once.
Lambda functions are all independent,
so one event is going to equal one function.
Lambda is serverless
and you should know what services are serverless,
so things like DynamoDB, things like S3,
things like Lambda.
Things like Elastic Beanstalk have servers,
EC2 has servers et cetera.
Lambda functions can trigger other Lambda functions,
so one event can equal x number of functions
if the functions trigger other functions,
so you can have an infinite number of functions in theory.
And then architectures can get extremely complicated
with Lambda and AWS X-ray allows you
to debug what is happening.
So we saw that in our lab.
We're able to go in and see X-ray, using X-ray,
we're able to see updates to DynamoDB,
our SNS notifications and that it was failing,
and then we're able to go in and troubleshoot with that
and make it better.
Also remember that Lambda can do things globally,
so you can use it to back up S3 buckets
to other S3 buckets in other regions,
but each Lambda function is on a regional basis.
So if you're doing in it Northern Virginia,
that's a separate area than obviously
if you're doing it in EU west one.
And then also go into the exam knowing the Lambda triggers.
It is really important to understand
all the different services that can trigger Lambda.
Remember what API Gateway is at a very high level,
and remember that API Gateway has caching capabilities
to increase performance.
So I used that example of a waiter, sorry, at McDonalds.
You know, when you're at McDonalds,
you get Big Macs and cheeseburgers very very quickly.
But if you're going to order something
like a fish burger or a salad,
it can take the kitchen longer,
given the kitchen actually has to go out to make it,
just like that, API Gateway can cache
the most common requests so you get it a lot faster.
API Gateway is very low cost and scales automatically
and you can throttle API Gateway to prevent attacks.
And Amazon do throttle API Gateway themselves.
Anyway, we'll get to that in a few slides.
And you can log results to CloudWatch.
If you're using Javascript/AJAX
that supports multiple domains with API Gateway,
you have to ensure that you've enabled CORS on API Gateway
and CORS is enforced by the client.
So Cross-Origin Resource Sharing.
Moving on to version control.
With Lambda, you can have multiple versions
of your Lambda functions.
The latest version will always use the $latest.
Qualified versions will use $latest
and unqualified versions,
when I say qualified versions, it will be the ARN,
and then at the ends you have the colon and then $latest,
whereas unqualified will not have the $latest
at the end of the ARN.
Versions are immutable.
They cannot be changed and you can actually split traffic
using aliases to different versions.
You cannot split this traffic with the $latest,
instead you have to go and create an alias to the $latest,
and then you can split your traffic from there.
And remember you can only split it two ways.
You can't do it three ways.
Step functions was a great way to visualize
your serverless application.
And step functions automatically triggers
and tracks each step.
Step functions logs the state of each step
so if something goes wrong,
you can track what went wrong and where.
And then X-Ray, sorry, X-Ray we used again
to just see what was going inside
our serverless applications,
to see the performance and if there was any errors.
The X-Ray SDK provides three things.
You've got your interceptors to add to your code
to trace incoming HTTP requests.
You've got your client handlers
to instrument AWS SDK clients
that your application uses to call the other AWS services.
And then you've got an HTTP client
to instrument calls to other internal
and external HTTP web services.
With X-Ray, remember that it integrates
with Elastic Load Balancing, Lambda, API Gateway,
EC2 and Elastic Beanstalk,
and then also just remember
the languages that are supported.
So Java, Go, Node.js, Python, Ruby and .net.
So that is it for this section of the course guys.
Hopefully you've had lots of fun building up
our serverless website.
We then went on to build out our own Alexa Skill
using the serverless application repository.
We then went on to learn about X-Ray, about step functions,
about Lambda, about API Gateway.
Now remember we do do serverless conferences
all over the world.
Check out http://serverlessconf.io/
if you want to check out where the nearest one is.
Serverless is a huge revolution in software architecture,
and it really is,
most applications will become serverless sooner or later
in my opinion.
So that is it for this lecture guys.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on
to the next section of the course.
Thank you.