Okay, hello, Cloud gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture, we're going to look at Step Functions.
So, what are Step Functions?
They basically allow you to visualize
and test your serverless applications,
and they provide a graphical console
to arrange and visualize the components of your applications
as a series of steps.
And this makes it easy to build
and run multi-step applications.
Step Functions automatically trigger and track each step,
and retries when there are errors,
so your application executes in order and as expected.
Step Functions logs the state of each step,
so, when things do go wrong, you can go in
and diagnose and debug problems quickly.
So, there's various ways you can use it,
and you can have sequential steps.
This might be where you upload a RAW file,
and then the next step is to go through
and delete that RAW file.
You can be wondering why you'd do that,
but that could be one step.
Or you can have a branches of steps.
So, let's say you go in
and your user select and image converter,
and you want to convert that RAW file to a JPEG,
or that RAW file to PNG, or perhaps as an unsupported type.
If they do converted to a JPEG or to PNG,
that will then load into a DynamoDB database,
and then that's the end of your function.
So, this is basically a branching function.
There's difference like a tree branch, really,
it's different choices that you can do.
And then, of course we've got parallel steps,
so perhaps somebody uploads a photo to an S3 Bucket,
that triggers the Lambda function,
and then, well, actually goes
and triggers three Lambda functions.
So, one Lambda function extracts the metadata,
one Lambda function resizes the image,
one Lambda function runs some facial recognition
to try and figure out who it is.
And then, all those Lambda functions store that information
in your DynamoDB database.
Now, literally, for the exam, you just need to know
what Step Functions is,
what I'm going to do now is just
to quickly give you a demo of it.
It's probably the easiest way to learn.
And then, we will move on.
So, let's go into the AWS Console.
Okay, so here I am, in the AWS Console,
and to get to Step Functions, we just go down to "Services"
now it isn't under "Lambda" which is under "Compute"
it's actually down here,
and it's under "Application Integration."
You'll be able to see it here, "Step Functions."
So, go ahead and click on that.
If you scroll down, it'll tell you a little bit
about how it works.
The way Step Functions works is you're using JSON-based
Amazon State Language, so it is its own language.
Again, don't worry, you won't need to learn the language
in order to pass the AWS Certified Developer Associate Exam,
you would need to learn it
when using Step Functions, however,
so, if you are going to go in
and use Step Functions in production,
you are going to have to go ahead and learn the language.
Very very simple to get started though,
just go up here and hit "get started."
Automatically, it'll drop you into this
"Run a Hello World example."
If we just go back to "State machines"
you'll be able to see in here,
we can create our State machines.
So, go ahead and hit "Create a State machine."
And we're going to do some sample projects,
and I'm going to choose one that's a little bit
more complicated, which is the "Job Poller"
and this is going to manage an asynchronous job,
using a serverless polling loop.
So, it's a combination of AWS Lambda and AWS Batch.
If you click on there and scroll down,
you'll be able to see the JSON in here,
the Amazon State Language, ASLs, what it's abbreviated to.
You can see it's pretty straightforward.
So, in here, we've got our "Start"
and then we've got our "Different states"
so, we've got our "Submit job" state,
we've then got our "Wait X second" state,
we've got our "Get job status"
and as you go ahead and complete this,
it actually draws out this little graph for you as well.
A sort of really good way of visualizing it.
Then leave everything else default,
so, what this actually does is we've got our "Start" here,
we're going to submit a job,
we're going to wait for 60 seconds,
we're then going to check the job's status,
and see whether or not it's complete.
If it's not complete, we've got our "Max Attempts" here.
So, essentially, it's going to go through
and check again and again,
and then if it's still not complete,
the job's going to be failed,
but if the job is completed,
then we're going to this "Get the final job status"
and then the whole thing ends.
So, that's all essentially it does.
Again, you don't need to understand the language in here,
in order to pass the Certified Developer Associate Exam,
but you would need to learn your Amazon States Language
if you were to go on and use this in production.
So, let's go ahead and hit "next."
In here, we're going to go ahead and hit "deploy resources"
and this is basically just
creating a AWS CloudFormation stack,
and it's going to go out
and deploy a couple of Lambda functions,
and set this environment all up for you.
Now, this can take up to 10 minutes.
So, I'm just going to pause the video
and wait for this to come live.
Okay, so, it has now finished.
My CloudFormation template has now finished.
You can see our wait time, 60 seconds in here.
This is basically a new execution.
So, we're going to go ahead and execute this.
If you want to do this multiple times,
you will need to copy and paste this,
and save it somewhere else,
you might want to save it in a text editor.
So, I'm just going to call this "My Test Execution"
and I'm just going to open this in a new browser tab,
so I don't lose this code.
So, I'm going to go ahead and hit "Start Execution."
That will now start my execution.
You'll be able to watch it
in realtime here in our Visual Flow.
And you can zoom in, zoom out, etc., etc.
So, right now, it's at the "Start submit job"
that has now successfully gone.
So, my Lambda function has now
successfully submitted my job.
But if you actually go to "Services"
and go over to "Batch"
okay I'm going to open this up in a new tab,
we have to be pretty quick to catch it,
but if you click on "Jobs" now I've already missed it,
you could see it in the dashboard anyway.
So, it's in a job queue, and it is currently running.
It hasn't failed or succeeded yet.
I'm actually back in my Step Functions.
We can see that it is waiting for folder 60 seconds,
so it is in progress.
And then, we're going to go through.
Now, it's just gotten the job status,
the job has now completed, and now, we're going to get
the final job status and figure out whether or not
this has failed or has it passed.
So, it's still in progress.
Just going to zoom out a bit, so you can see it.
And just going to pause the video,
and wait for this to update.
And there we go.
It has now succeeded.
So, we can see that's all greens.
And we can actually go down here
and have a look at our execution event history.
So, we can see that it's gone through.
The task has started.
We've got our Lambda functions.
We've then waited,
we've then triggered more Lambda functions.
Things all logged to CloudWatch Logs, etc., etc., etc.
So, that is it for Step Functions.
I'll just quickly show you how to delete it.
So, if you go in, you can actually go into "Lambda"
and have a look at the functions that it's generated.
These Step Functions here.
There's two of them.
But let's go back over to,
we need to go over to "CloudFormation"
and inside CloudFormation, we're able to see this template,
so "Step Functions" go ahead and go to "Actions"
and just delete the stack,
that will then delete all the associated resources,
and that will now clean up your AWS environment.
So, what are my exam tips?
So, really, you just need to know what Step Functions are.
They are a great way
to visualize your serverless application.
Step Functions automatically triggers and tracks each step.
And Step Functions logs the state of each step,
so, if something goes wrong,
you can track what went wrong, and where.
So, you literally just need to know what Step Functions are.
It's probably worth one or two questions in your exam.
So, that is it for this lecture, guys.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.