Okay, hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture, we are going to look at The Exam Blueprint.
So, let's get started by looking at the different domains,
and you'll see we have five domains.
So Domain 1 is on Deployment, this is worth 22%,
Domain 2 is on Security, this is worth 26%,
Domain 3 is on Development with AWS Services,
this is worth 30%,
Domain 4 is about Refactoring which is worth 10%,
and Domain 5 is Monitoring and Troubleshooting.
So this is The Exam Blueprint here and we will put a link
in the resources section of the course.
So go ahead and have a read through this in your own time.
In terms of the required knowledge,
they recommend that you have an application
or you have experience of maintaining an AWS based
application for one or more years inside AWS.
They also recommend that you do understand
a programming language in order to do this.
So, in-depth knowledge of at least one programing language.
Understanding of core AWS services,
proficiency and developing,
and deploying and debugging
cloud-based applications using AWS,
I'm not going to read all these out.
You can go ahead and have a read of them yourself,
but you should have some AWS experience.
Don't worry if you don't though,
that's what this course is designed to do,
it's designed to give you some AWS experience so that you
will be able to go and pass this exam on your first attempt.
And will build out a whole bunch of different applications
in the cloud throughout the rest of this course.
In terms of preparation,
you can go over to the
aws.com/training,
this is going to be instructor led or virtual led
three day course, it can be quite intense.
A lot of people do our courses just because you
can watch them on the go,
you don't have to come out of the office for three days
but if you do want a break from the office for three days,
go ahead and book the AWS training.
Now, there are an awful lot of whitepapers
in this particular Exam Blueprint.
I actually personally think its overkill,
we will color off basically all the things
that you will need to know to pass the exam.
I'm not going to do a lecture on every single whitepaper.
If you want to you know to have a 100% certainty
that you're going to pass on the first attempt,
you can go out and read all these whitepapers,
it's entirely all up to you.
What I would definitely do is
understand what Blue/Green Deployments are,
we are going to cover that off in the
Elastic Beanstalk section of the course,
because that will come up quite a bit in your exam.
You may also want to read this whitepaper
so, Blue/Green Deployments.
In terms of the exam content,
it's going to be multiple choice and multiple response,
this multiple choice is where you've got one correct answer,
multiple response will be two or more correct answers.
Do just make sure you read the question carefully.
And in here, you can see that your results for
the examination report is a score from 100 to 1000
and you've a minimum passing score of 720.
We've gone though the Domains,
if you want to dive into a bit more detail with
Domain 1 with Deployment,
deploy code in AWS using existing CI/CD pipelines,
so we will show you how to set that up.
Deploy applications using Elastic Beanstalk,
we definitely will show you how to do that.
Prepare the application deployment package to be
deployed to AWS and deploy serverless applications.
We will build out our own serverless applications
and even our very own Alexa skill in this course.
Domain 2 is around making authenticated calls
to AWS services,
implement encryption using AWS services,
implement application authentication and authorization.
And if you scroll all the way up to the very top
where we do talk a little bit about security,
so you can see it in here where it says,
ability to write code using AWS security best practices
e.g. not using secret and access keys in the code,
instead using IAM roles.
Now, we will cover up for that means in IAM section
of the course,
but if you ever get a scenario based question
where it's saying,
should you use secret access keys or should you use roles,
always use roles.
It specifically says that in The Exam Blueprint,
and that will come up probably three or four times in
your exams, so just bear that in mind.
Moving down from Development with AWS services,
we need to write code for the serverless applications,
we are going to build our own serverless websites
in this course,
translate functional requirements into application design,
implement application design into application code
and then write code that interacts with AWS services
by using the APIs, SDKs and AWS CLIs.
So again, we will be doing this,
you don't need to know how to program,
we're going to be using pre-defined code,
as well as the serverless application repository.
So we'll either supply the code to you,
or you can use the serverless application repository
which we will learn about in the serverless section.
Refactoring, so optimize applications to best use
AWS services and features,
and migrate existing applications code to run on AWS.
That can come up quite a bit in API Gateway,
especially when you are asked to use XML and so,
but then again we will come to that later on.
And then we have Monitoring and Troubleshooting,
so write code that can be monitored and perform
root cause analysis on faults found
in testing or production.
So about the exam itself,
it's 130 minutes in length,
we have 65 questions,
you will get your results immediately,
like I said earlier the pass mark is 720,
and the top score is 1000.
It's going to cost you $150 US Dollars,
it's multiple choice,
and the qualification is valid for 2 years,
and you're going to have a whole bunch
of scenario-based questions.
So, without further ado,
let's go ahead and go ahead and get started.