(music)
Okay, hello Cloud Gurus.
I'm Ryan Kroonenburg.
And I'm Faye Ellis.
And welcome to the Certified Developer Associate course.
So my name's Ryan Kroonenburg.
I'm one of the founders of A Cloud Guru.
I'm an AWS Community Hero, as well as
an Alexa Champion and I've been teaching
AWS for over three years now,
and I've taught it to 600,000 people,
so you're in very, very good hands.
I've worked both as a developer,
as a solutions architect, and a system administrator,
for companies like Rackspace, and a whole bunch
of other managed service companies in the UK.
I'm Faye Ellis and I'm a technical instructor
at A Cloud Guru and I've worked in the IT industry
for around twenty years, mainly in the financial
services sector and I've worked as a systems administrator,
an architect, and also a developer.
So in this section of the course, we're going to be
exploring the exam blueprint, and if you've already done
your Solutions Architect course, which lectures
you can skip over.
But I will be honest with you.
The Developer Associate is very different now
to the Solutions Architect, so I would try and watch
as much of this course as you can.
Next section, I'll teach you what Identity Access
Management is at a very high level.
We'll then move on to EC2 which Ryan will cover,
followed by S3 which I will cover.
So you will then learn about serverless computing,
and we're going to build a whole bunch of
different serverless websites, including a
serverless website that you can load your notes into,
and it will basically turn these notes into
MP3 files using the polyservers.
We'll store these MP3 files in S3.
We'll then build an Alexa Skill to go ahead
and stream these MP3 files so it's going to be
really, really hands-on.
You're going to learn an awful lot.
We'll then cover off DynamoDB, KMS, application
services such as SQS, SNS, Kinesis, etc.
I'll then teach you about Developer Theory,
Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment,
CodeCommit, CodeDeploy, CodePipeline,
and finally we'll move onto advanced Identity
Access Management.
So without further ado, let's get started.