Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture is on Advanced Elastic Beanstalk.
Now this is just going to be a theory lecture,
because we're just going to keep it simple.
But it's really important to understand
going into your exam that you can come customize
your Elastic Beanstalk environment
using Elastic Beanstalk configuration file.
And this means you can define packages to install,
you can create Linux users and groups,
you can run shell commands,
you can specify services to enable
or you can even go in and configure your load balancer.
So there's so much you can do.
These files are written in either in YAML or in JSON format.
And they can have a file name of your choice
but they must have a .config extension,
and they will all be saved inside a folder
called .ebextensions.
so you can have any file name that you want,
but it's got to have a .config
and these files all have to be saved
inside the folder .ebextensions.
So where is the .ebextensions folder?
Well, it must be included in the top level directory
of your application source code bundle.
So this means that the configuration files
can be placed under the source control
along with the rest of your application code.
So you probably will get a question
going into your exams
about how to configure Elastic Beanstalk deployments.
And you just use the .config files
and they all must be saved
in the .ebextensions folder,
which must be in the top level directory
of your application.
Remember that.
Here's an example of myhealthcheckurl.config.
So in this example, we're using JSON
and in this example,
we're telling our Elastic Load Balancer,
the application health check URL,
and we're just saving this in a config file
with code of up myhealthcheckurl.config,
and this would be saved in the .ebextensions folder
in our root directory.
So that's really it.
That's my Advanced Elastic Beanstalk tips.
So just remember that you can customize
your Elastic Beanstalk environment
by adding configuration files.
The files are going to be
either written in YAML or in JSON.
The files can have any name that they want
but they've got to have the .config extension
and these .config files are all saved to
the .ebextensions folder.
And this must be located in the top level directory
of your application source code bundle.
So if you have any questions,
please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the very last
Elastic Beanstalk lecture
where we talk about Elastic Beanstalk with RDS