Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture we're going to look at how we can
deploy applications with Elastic Beanstalk.
So I've created two very, very simple websites.
We've got version one and version two.
You'll be able to download version one in this lab.
And in the next lab you'll be able to download version two.
It's in the resources section.
So do go ahead and download that.
Basically, it's an index.php file
and photo of a show that we have called AWS This Week.
Which is a show we run every single week
to keep you updated with AWS.
It's on our YouTube channel.
So what we're gonna do is gonna deploy this app
in a PHP Apache stack using Elastic Beanstalk.
So once you've downloaded it,
just keep it as a .zip file.
You don't need to unzip it unless
you want to have a look at the files.
And then you'll need to log into the AWS console.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS console.
I'm gonna go over to services.
Elastic Beanstalk sits under compute.
You can see it here.
And CloudFormation actually sits under Management Tools.
CloudFormation is a way of scripting your infrastructure.
Whereas Elastic Beanstalk is a way of provisioning
your environments using a GUI effectively.
So gonna click on Elastic Beanstalk,
and you'll see this splash screen
if you haven't used it before.
I'm currently in the Northern Virginia region.
I'm gonna go ahead and get started.
And I'm gonna call this application name,
let's call it Hello Cloud Gurus.
Now the platform, I'm going to choose PHP.
And then I'm going to,
instead of using a sample application,
I'm going to upload my code.
So I'm just going to click upload.
And then it says source code origin local file.
Choose file.
And you can see my two files in here.
We've got version one and version two.
I'm going to use version one for this,
gonna go ahead and hit open.
Then I'm just gonna go over here and hit upload.
Though it is now uploading,
it's actually uploading it to an S3 bucket,
which it's going to create.
And then I'm gonna go ahead and hit create application.
So this can take a little bit of time.
Can take about, basically five or six minutes.
So I'm just gonna pause the video and wait
for my Elastic Beanstalk environment to come online.
Okay, so that took about four minutes.
You can see here it says
successfully launched environment, Hello Cloud Gurus ENV.
So if I could go and click on applications,
I'll be able to see it in here,
Hello Cloud Gurus ENV.
And then if I click in here,
I'll be able to see that it's up and running.
And hopefully if I click this link
we should get a live website.
And where we go.
Hello Cloud Gurus, this is version one.
And there's Faye doing AWS this week.
So DeepLens is now in General Availability.
We actually just ordered one in to the office.
So expect some courses on that soon.
And if you actually click on the link,
you'll be able to see our YouTube channel.
And you'll be able to subscribe.
I would recommend subscribing 'cause it's the easiest way
to keep up to date with AWS every week.
You can see that the videos are
between two to three minutes long.
So very easy to watch on your way to work.
So back in the AWS console
and back in my Elastic Beanstalk environment.
In here, we've got our configurations.
So this is how we go and configure our environment.
Right now were just using a T1 micro.
It's a very basic instance.
We could go in here and add additional instances.
We can go in here and configure our load balancers.
In here, we've got our deployment policies.
So how do we do updates to our website.
And we're gonna cover that off in a lot of detail
in the next lecture 'cause that is basically
the main thing you're gonna be tested on,
going into your Developers Associate exam
on Elastic Beanstalk.
Note over here we have our logs,
health, monitoring, alarms, managed updates.
Managed updates are basically where
you can configure updates to your operating system.
Updates to, let's say PHP
or to Apache or something like that.
And you do this during a pre-defined configuration window.
So it might be at 3AM every Sunday.
And down here, we've got events and tags as well.
So let's go back to our dashboard.
I am going to end the lecture here.
We are going to go ahead and learn all about updates.
Like I said, that is pretty much the most important thing
to know going into the Developer Associate exam.
So if you've got the time,
please join me in the next lecture, thank you.