Okay, hello Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture is on Kinesis and this
is a high level overview of Kinesis.
Kinesis has started appearing in the
Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam.
So we have created this section
to give you a high level overview
and then some practical, hands on experience with Kinesis.
So, what is streaming data?
Let's start with streaming data
because in order to understand Kinesis,
you have to understand streaming data.
So streaming data is data that is generated continuously
by thousands of data sources,
which typically send the data records
simultaneously, and in small sizes.
In which we are talking Kilobytes.
So this could be purchases from online stores for example,
so think of Amazon.com,
people are buying stuff on there every single second
and that generates streaming data.
So that would be the transaction, you know,
it would be the product that they have bought, et cetera.
Stock prices could be an example of streaming data.
Game data, so this could be like Angry Birds
as the player is playing Angry Birds,
that device or that application could be streaming data back
to the central servers about what the user is doing and
what their scores are, et cetera.
Social network data is another example of streaming data.
So every time you go onto Facebook,
and you update your status, or you post something
to your friends' walls. That data could then be streamed.
And then a really good example of streaming data
is Geospatial data so just think of uber.com
I am actually recording this right out the front
of Uber's offices in San Francisco right now.
I am in town for a tech conference
and I am staying right nextdoor to them.
I am actually looking at their building right now.
So, Geospatial data, if you think about when you are using
Uber, you know your device is connected to the internet
and it is constantly saying where your Uber driver is
and where you are and then it is interrogating the maps
to give you the fastest route possible
to where it is you want to go.
So that is another good example of streaming data.
Another final example,
the IoT and the sensor data that IoT collects.
So this could be sensors all around the world
monitoring temperatures for example.
So, what is Kinesis?
Well, Kinesis is a platform on AWS
that you send your streaming data to.
It makes it easy to load and analyze streaming data
and also provides you the ability to build your own
custom applications for your business needs.
So there is three core Kinesis services.
There is Kinesis Streams.
There is Kinesis Firehose,
and then there is Kinesis Analytics.
And in the exam, you are going to be given a whole bunch of
different scenario questions and you have to identify
which service you should use
in order to best fit the scenario.
So, you need to have a key understanding of the different
aspects of the Kinesis service.
So why don't we start with Kinesis Streams because it is
the easiest place to start.
So, down off to the left we have got an EC2 Instance,
we have got mobile phones, we have got laptops,
we could have physical computers, we have got IoT.
And these are data producers, these are the ones that
are producing the data for us.
They are then sending this data over to Kinesis Streams.
Now, Kinesis Streams basically stores this data, by default
it is stored for 24 hours,
but you can increase this for seven days.
Now this data is actually stored in these things
called shards and I will explain what they are
in the next slide but basically
your data is sent to Kinesis, it is stored in shards
and by default it is stored in those shards for 24 hours
but you can increase that to seven day retention.
Once the data is stored in the shard, you then have a fleet
of EC2 Instances which record your data consumers.
And they basically take the data from the shard
and turn it into something useful.
So, it might be aggregating the data or it might be
running sentiment analysis on social media feeds,
it might be some kind of algorithm you have got
to predict the, you know, the stock market
or to predict the cost of commodities, et cetera.
And once your data consumers have done their calculations
they can then send that data to be stored
in a variety of AWS services.
So things like DynamoDB, S3,
Elastic MapReduce, Redshift, et cetera.
So quickly just on Streams,
so Kinesis Streams consist of shards and a shard basically
gives you five transactions per second for reads,
and up to a maximum total data read rate of 2 MB per second,
and up to one thousand records per second for writes and
up to a total data write rate of 1 MB per second and that
includes your partition keys.
Now don't worry, you do not need to remember those figures
going into the exams, but just understand,
you know, what a shard is.
And you can have multiple shards in a stream.
So the data capacity of your stream is basically a function
of the number of shards that you specify for the stream.
The total capacity of the stream is the sum of all of the
shards that you have within that stream.
So that is the architecture of Kinesis Streams.
So, what is Kinesis Firehose?
Well, Kinesis Firehose is very similar in that we have our
data producers. So we have got EC2 Instances, that could be
a web fleet of EC2 Instances, like amazon.com for example.
Could be mobile devices, when you are using Uber.
It could be your laptop, it could be IoT
and they are sending the data into Kinesis Firehose.
So the cool thing about Kinesis Firehose is that you do not
have to worry about shards.
You do not have to worry about streams.
You do not have to worry about manually adding in shards
to keep up with your data, et cetera.
It is completely automated,
and you do not even have to worry about data consumers
going in and mining that data.
You can analyze that data using Lambda in real time and once
that data has been analyzed,
you can then send it over directly to S3.
Now, the actual analytics of that data
is completely optional.
The other thing about Kinesis Firehose is that
there is no like, automatic data retention window.
So, in Kinesis Streams you can retain data by default for
24 hours but you can extend that up to seven days.
Firehose does not work like that, essentially as soon as the
data comes in to Firehose,
it is either analyzed using Lambda or it is sent directly
on to S3 or other locations.
So, what other locations? Well, it could be things
like Redshift. If you are sending data to Redshift via the
Firehose, you have to write to S3 first and then that data
is then copied into Redshift from S3.
You can also use Kinesis Firehose to send things over to
Elasticsearch Cluster, so you can also write your data
directly into Elasticsearch Cluster.
So Firehose is a very automated way of doing Kinesis.
So we will just compare, this is Kinesis Streams again.
So you have got your data producers, they are sending the
data in to the streams, the streams consists of shards.
The data itself is contained for between 24 hours or
up to seven days but by default it is 24 hours.
Your consumers then go in and consume that data, analyze it,
do whatever it is you need to do to transform that data
and then your consumers can send that data onto things
like DynamoDB, S3, Elastic MapReduce or Redshift.
If when we are using Firehouse for example,
it is completely automated so you do not need to worry about
your data consumers, you just send it to Firehose,
Firehose then sends it to S3.
You can optionally go ahead and analyze that data
using Lambda but it is a lot more automated.
You do not have to worry about the management of shards,
and data retention within Kinesis itself.
So let's move on Kinesis Analytics.
This can come up just as a high level concept
as to what it is.
So down here, we have got our Kinesis Firehose and we have
got our Kinesis Streams.
Kinesis Analytics allows you to run SQL queries
of that data as it exists within Firehose or Streams, and
then you can use that SQL query to store that data inside
S3, Redshift or Elasticsearch Cluster.
So, it is essentially way of analyzing the data that is
inside Kinesis using SQL-type querying languages
and you can use it across both Kinesis Streams
as well as Kinesis Firehose.
So what are my exam tips going into the exam about Kinesis?
Well you need to know the difference between
Kinesis Streams and Kinesis Firehose.
You are going to be given scenario questions
and you must choose the most relevant service.
So, just remember the core architectural differences.
If you see a question talking about shards,
you know straight away that is going to be Kinesis Streams
because Firehose does not have shards, whereas if it is
talking about analyzing data automatically using Lambda,
and not having to worry about data consumers, then that is
going to be Kinesis Firehose.
Also understand at a high level
just what Kinesis Analytics is.
So now we are just going to quickly do a hands-on lab
so you can see Kinesis in action.
We are going to use CloudFormation template
to build this out.
So, if you have got the time, join me in the next lecture.
Thank you.