Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture is on Kinesis,
and we're gonna go ahead and set up
our own Kinesis stream.
So, it is a lab and you're going to need
to log into the AWS console,
and the CloudFormation template that we'll be using
is available in the resources section of the course.
Okay, so I'm in the AWS console
and I just want you to go up and change your region
to Northern Virginia, so US East one
because we're basically we're going to be using
a CloudFormation template,
and we wanna make sure all the resources
within that CloudFormation template
are available if you're using it in a new region
like London, for example, it might break the lab.
So once you've done that,
we need to go over to CloudFormation,
and CloudFormation is under our Management Tools,
and we click on CloudFormation.
And now what we're gonna do is we're going
to go ahead and we're going to create a new stack.
And we're going to instead of using a template,
we're going to Specify an Amazon S3 template URL.
Now, I will paste this into the resources section
of the course, so just copy and paste that link
and then paste it into here,
and we'll go ahead and hit Next.
That stack, we'll give it a Stack Name
of MyKinesisStack,
and we will leave everything else as default.
If you wanna use an EC2 Key Pair
in order to be able to SSH
into your EC2 instance
that's doing both the data consumption
and production, you can.
I'm just going to leave it.
I'm gonna leave it as the t2 micro,
and we're going to use the ApplicationArchive,
this GitHub link in here.
That's contained within the CloudFormation stacks,
so you don't need to worry about getting that.
We'll go ahead and hit Next.
Optionally, you can put in Tags,
so I'm just gonna leave everything else as default
and go ahead and hit Next.
And we'll go ahead and create our stack.
Now, don't worry about this error message up here.
Just scroll all the way down,
acknowledge that that CloudFormation is going
to create IAM resources and go ahead and hit Create,
and now what will happen is your CloudFormation template
will start creating your KinesisStack.
And this can take anywhere for up
to between 10 to 15 minutes.
So I'm just gonna pause the video
and wait for this stack to be created.
Okay, so it says my Status is CREATE_COMPLETE.
If I just hit Refresh and click on Events,
I can see all the different Events
that has happened within that stack,
and now what we wanna do is we wanna click
on Outputs and it's giving us a URL here,
and is URL is essentially both our data producer
and our data consumer,
so it's both artificially creating the data,
feeding it into Kinesis streams,
and then it is essentially connecting back up
and taking that data and consuming it.
And if we actually click on the link,
it will create this nice little graph.
And so this is essentially just simulating
the number of hits on different websites.
It's not real data at all.
It's just a simulation, and it's just using random numbers,
but you can leave this running you know
for a couple of minutes,
and see the visualizations
but, essentially, all you're gonna see is
these different lines moving up and down randomly
across a timestamped map.
So back in the console, in the CloudFormation stack,
let's go ahead and have a look at what's been created.
So we can go into EC2,
and we'll be able to see our EC2 instance that is running.
This EC2 instance, like I said,
is both the data producer and the data consumer.
If we go back over to here,
and if we actually go down into Kinesis,
so Kinesis is down the bottom
and it's under the Analytics section
and we click into Kinesis,
we can see in here, if we go over to Kinesis Streams,
we'll be able to see our Kinesis Stream,
and it says MyKinesisStack-KinesisStream.
And we actually click in here.
This gives us all the details,
so we've got two open shards right now.
Our data retention period is 24 hours,
and we can increase this up to seven days
or 168 hours, and then our shard level metrics
are, basically, instead of it being every five minutes,
we're producing our metrics at every one minute
if we were going to enable it.
So very similar to detailed monitoring.
If we click up into the Monitoring section,
we can actually monitor our shards now,
so we can see what is going on
inside our Kinesis stream,
and you can have a look at all the different data there,
and what it's actually doing is
it's storing this data in DynamoDB.
So if we come back here
and go over to our DynamoDB database,
you'll be able to see in Tables.
If you click in Tables,
you can see our different tables have been created.
So let's just click in this one,
and you can go over to Items,
and you can see in here the large amounts of items
that is being stored every second inside our DynamoDB table.
So this really is just a high-level overview
of Kinesis to give you a little bit of hands-on experience.
Really going into the exam,
you're expected to know the difference
between Kinesis Streams and Kinesis Firehose.
You also need to know what Kinesis Analytics is
at a high-level, and that's about it.
So now if you just click back over here,
we're gonna go and delete everything,
so we just need to go back into CloudFormation,
click on here and just go Actions
and then Delete Stack,
and we're gonna go ahead and delete this stack
and all the resources that exist
within that stack are now going to be deleted as well.
So that's it for this lecture, guys.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If you see anything in your exam on Kinesis
that you felt that the course hasn't covered,
please also let me know,
and I'll create additional contact,
but like I said, or content,
but like I said, the two things you really need
to understand is the difference between Kinesis Firehose,
Kinesis Streams and Kinesis Analytics.