Okay hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture we're going
to look at RDS and Elastic Beanstalk.
So Elastic Beanstalk supports two ways
of integrating an RDS database
with your Beanstalk environment.
And you can launch the RDS instance
from within the Elastic Beanstalk console,
which means the RDS instance is created
within your Elastic Beanstalk environment,
and this is a typical use case with this
would be for Dev and Test deployments.
However, this might not be ideal for production environments
because it means that the lifecycle of your database
is tied to the lifecycle of your application environment.
So if you go in and terminate the environment,
the database instance is going to be terminated too.
So just remember if you couple RDS
and Elastic Beanstalk together it means that when you go in
and delete your Elastic Beanstalk environment,
it is going to go in and delete your RDS instance as well,
and that could not be ideal for production systems.
So, for production environments,
the preferred option is to decouple the RDS instance
from your Elastic Beanstalk environment.
So you should launch it outside of Elastic Beanstalk
directly from the RDS section of the AWS console.
And this gives you a lot more flexibility,
allows you to connect multiple environments
to the same database.
You could have multiple Elastic Beanstalk environments
connecting into your RDS instance,
and it provides a wider choice of database types
because you can choose any database
that is supported by RDS and also allows you
to tear down your application environments
without affecting your database instance.
So how do you do this?
Well you need to do two things essentially.
Two additional configuration steps required.
The first is that an additional security group
must be added to your environment's Auto Scaling group.
And then you'll also need to provide
the connection string configuration
to your application servers.
So this is gonna be your database, or your RDS endpoint,
the password and the username,
and then just the connection parameters
in order to connect into that database.
So that is it.
You just need to remember that going into your exam,
that there's two different options
for launching your RDS instance.
You can launch it from within Elastic Beanstalk
but do remember that when you terminate
the Elastic Beanstalk environment,
the database is also gonna be terminated.
It's quick and easy to add your database
to Elastic Beanstalk and get started,
but this would typically just be suitable
for Dev and Test environments only.
The other option is you can launch
outside of Elastic Beanstalk.
So you do this by going into the RDS console
and provisioning your instance.
Additional configuration steps are required.
You're going to need to create a security group
and you're going to need to pass
a connection string to your application.
This is definitely suitable for production environments
'cause it gives you more flexibility,
and it also allows you to have connections
from multiple environments and you can tear down
the application stacks without it impacting the database.
So you have done really well.
You are at the end of this section of the course.
In the next one, we're just going
to rehash everything that we've learnt
in this section of the course,
and then we'll be able to move on to the next section.
So if you've got the time please join me
in the next lecture, thank you.