Okay, hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this very quick lecture comparing
SES vs. SNS.
So, what is SES?
Well, SES stands for Simple Email Service.
It's a scalable and highly available email service
designed to help marketing teams and application developers
send marketing, notification, and transactional emails
to their customers using a pay as you go model.
So, it's basically sending out marketing emails.
It can also be used to receive emails.
Incoming emails can be delivered automatically
to an S3 bucket.
And incoming mails can actually be used to trigger
Lambda functions and SNS notifications.
So, SES is email-only.
Right?
With SNS you can do things like text messages.
You can do things like add to SQS queues,
publish to HTTPS endpoints, et cetera.
SES is email only and I want you to think of
marketing emails.
Best way to remember it.
So, it's for automated emails,
you can have purchase confirmations, shipping notifications,
order status updates, et cetera.
So, you could have a mobile phone company that needs
to send an automated confirmation email every time
a customer purchases a pre-paid mobile phone,
card, or minutes.
It's used for marketing communications, advertisements,
newsletters, special offers, et cetera.
And this could be an online retail business that
needs to let its customers know about what sales promotions
its got on as well as discounts.
So, a quick comparison.
SES, again like I said, email messaging service,
SNS is a pub/sub messaging service, and it has a whole bunch
of different formats,
not just email but SMS, HTTP, SQS, et cetera.
SES can be used to trigger Lambda functions
or SNS notifications.
Same with SNS.
It can be used to trigger Lambda functions.
And then it can also be,
SES can be used for both incoming and outgoing mails.
Whereas SNS can actually fan out messages to a large
number of recipients, and you can replicate and push
messages out to multiple endpoints and formats.
And not just emails, but, like we said,
SMS, HTTP, SQS, and as well as emails.
With SES, an email address is all that's required to
start sending messages to a user.
With SNS, consumers must subscribe to a topic in order to
receive the notification.
So, SES is essentially asynchronous.
Whereas SNS is synchronous.
So, someone has to go in and actually subscribe to a
topic to get those notifications.
So, what are my exam tips?
Just remember that SES is for emails only.
Can be used for incoming and outgoing mails.
It is not subscription based, you only need to know the
person's email address.
Whereas SNS supports multiple formats:
SMS, SQS, HTTP, as well as email.
It's push notifications only.
It's a pub/sub model so consumers must subscribe
to a topic.
And you can fan messages out to large number of recipients
so, multiple clients each with their own SQS queues.
So that is it for this lecture guys,
if you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.