Okay, hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
In this lecture we're going to look at
the AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store,
so I want you to imagine the following scenario.
So you work for a bank, you're a systems administrator
and you need to store confidential information,
such as users, passwords, license keys, et cetera,
and you need to basically pass this information
to EC2 as either a bootstrap script,
or it could be using CloudFormation,
or it could be using Lambda or whatever.
So how would you do this?
Well the answer is with AWS Systems Manager Parameter Store,
so let's go and jump over to the AWS console
and have a look at this in action.
Okay, so here I am in the AWS console,
so where is AWS Systems Manager?
Well, it's actually under EC2, so just like EBS
or load balancers, it's a function that
sits under EC2, it doesn't have it's own section.
You'll be able to find it by scrolling
all the way down here and you can see we've got
Systems Manager Services, so we've got things
like the run command, the state manager,
configuration compliance, et cetera, et cetera.
And then if we scroll down under the shared resources,
we've got our Parameter Store so let's
go ahead and click on that.
Now if you've never used it before,
you're gonna get this splash screen.
We'll go ahead and get started.
Essentially we create a parameter,
we're gonna store our sensitive data in there
and then we're going to be able
to access this parameter across a whole bunch
of different services and you see the services
in here so EC2 Run Command, EC2 Estate Manager,
CloudFormation, you can do it using Lambda,
et cetera, et cetera, so let's go ahead and get started.
So in here we've got our name, so this might be
our license key, let's call it Adobe License Key.
So let's assume we've got some form
of Adobe software on here and we need to pass at
this license key when we're installing,
so My License Key For Adobe.
Now in here we've got different types,
so we've got string, we've got string list,
and we've got secure string.
With string we can just enter any data in here,
within string list we can basically enter
multiple values and we separate them using a comma.
If you want this information, you could just
click up here.
And then secure string actually encrypts
the data using KMS and this is where we would store
our sensitive information.
And even if you type it in here, you can see
it's not revealed to me.
So if you have other system administrators,
you can store all your keys and stuff in here
and they can go and use this and reference this,
but they won't actually be able to see the keys themselves,
so it is very, very secure.
So I'm gonna go ahead and just enter in a random one,
hit create parameter, you see the parameter
was created successfully.
If you do get some weird error messages,
it's probably 'cause you put a space in the name,
just go back and take the spaces out.
And then you'll be able to see here
we've got my parameters.
So it's called Adobe License Key,
it's a secure string as string type.
Notice that I can't go in and actually view
the value, actually I can here, look, there you go.
Show value, so you can see the value inside the console,
but it depends on your levels of permission.
So if people didn't have access to EC2, for example,
they wouldn't be able to go in and see these keys.
And then we can pass this attribute over
to CloudFormation, we can pass it to Lambda, et cetera.
If you wanna find out how to do that,
just head over to the documentation.
We've added it as a resource in the course.
You can go down and see about Systems Manager
working with Systems Manager Parameters.
In here you can see how you can actually
organize them into hierarchies, how you can create them,
which we've just done, tag them, and then working
with different versions.
They give you lots of practical examples
and you'll be able to see how to set things up
using Lambda, how to reference them in CloudFormation,
et cetera.
To be honest, you're not gonna be quizzed on that
in the exam, so it is beyond the scope of this course,
but you definitely need to understand at a high level
that you can use AWS Systems Manager
as a way of storing sensitive information.
So what are my exam tips?
Well, if you've got confidential information
such as passwords, database connection strings,
license codes, et cetera, et cetera, it could be user names,
whatever it is that's confidential,
you can store this inside SSM Parameter Store.
You can store values as plain text
or you can actually go in and encrypt the data using KMS
and then you can use this data by referencing the values
using their names, so the names do need to be unique.
And you can use this service with EC2,
with CloudFormation, with Lambda, with EC2 Run Command,
et cetera, et cetera.
So be aware of that, you might get some scenario questions
where you've got exactly that kind of scenario
where you're working at a bank or something like that
and you need to store sensitive information,
keep in mind that AWS Systems Manager is probably
gonna be a better place to store it
than putting it in a plain text file in S3
and giving it public read permissions.
So if you do see that, just be aware
of what it is at a high level.
So that's it for this lecture, guys.
If you have any questions, please let me know.
If not, feel free to move onto the next lecture, thank you.