Hello Cloud Gurus,
and welcome to this lecture.
And this lecture is all about CloudFront,
which is Amazon's content delivery network.
And this is a theoretical lecture,
it's just to introduce the main concepts,
so that you have a good understanding
before we go ahead and build our own CloudFront distribution
in the next lab.
So, let's get started.
So, what is a CDN?
Well, a CDN or a content delivery network
is a system of distributed servers or
a network of distributed servers that deliver webpages
and other web content to users
based on the geographical locations of the user,
the origin of the webpage, and a content delivery server.
So what does that mean?
Well, it's really a web service which speeds up
the distribution of you static and dynamic web content
so think, html, javascripts, image files,
so any web content, and it's a much more efficient way
for geographically distributed users to access your content.
So, imagine you are running a website located in the UK,
and you have a lot of users based all around the world,
so you've got users in USA, South America,
Africa, India, and Australia,
and when a user browses to your website,
their request is rooted through many different networks
to reach your server.
And the number of network hops and the distance
the request needs to travel has a significant impact
on the performance and the responsiveness of your website.
And the network latency is going to be different
for each different location.
So, it's not going to be consistent geographically.
So, for those users who are further away,
they're going to experience worse performance,
they're going to experience greater latency.
So, for example, for users based in Australia,
they might experience worse performance, greater latency,
or they might think that the website seems less responsive
that users based in, say, India for example.
So, this is where the use of a
content delivery network comes in.
And we're going to use the same diagram that we used
for Transfer Acceleration.
So, if you remember, Transfer Acceleration
utilizes CloudFront technology, but there is a difference
between the two, and the main thing to remember
is that CloudFront is focused on content delivery,
so think allowing more efficient reads and downloads,
whereas Transfer Acceleration is all about
enabling faster uploads into S3.
So, once again imagine you are running your website
from London, and you have your users
all geographically dispersed all around the world.
So, instead of each user accessing the files directly
between their geographical location and London,
instead we introduce this concept called edge locations.
And an edge location is simply a collection of servers
which are in a geographically dispersed data centers.
And these edge locations are used by CloudFront
to keep a cache of copies of your object,
so copies of your html files, your images,
your content that you're serving,
and this means that instead of requesting content
from your server located in London,
users can access that content from the edge location.
So, instead of making the request to the London server,
the user is making the request directly
to the edge location, which is much closer geographically
than the main server in London.
So, once the request is made, the edge location
forwards the request on to the server in London,
so it downloads the files and it caches them locally,
so that means that next time the user,
or if another user comes along and wants to access
the same object, they can then access that
directly from the edge location.
So, this provides a much faster response time.
It means that your requests are only going
to that local edge location,
they're not going all the way to London.
It dramatically reduces the number of network hops
for each of your requests, which again improves
the performance time, it gives you lower latency
and higher transfer rates as well.
So, objects are cached and they're cached
for a period of time, and after that period of time is up,
it's called a Time To Live, after that Time To Live is up
the object are automatically cleared from the cache.
Now, you can clear objects yourself,
for example, if you had a new version of an object,
a new version of an image, or a new version of a file,
you can actually go in there and clear the cache yourself,
to make sure that when your users try to access that file,
they get the latest version.
So, you can clear the cache yourself
but you will be charged for doing that.
So, let's take a look
at some of the key CloudFront terminology.
So, edge location, and this is the location
where content is cached, you can cache content
that you're trying to access from the website or from S3,
but you can also write content into
the edge location as well, so it's a two-way thing.
They are separate to an AWS Region or Availability Zone,
and actually there are a lot more edge locations
than there are AWS Regions and Availability Zones.
Now, origin, so this is really just the origin
of all the files that the content delivery network
is going to distribute.
So, it could be an S3 Bucket, it could be an EC2 Instance
running a website, it could be an Elastic Load Balancer,
or it could be Route 53, but usually
more often than not it's an S3 Bucket
or it's an EC2 instance running a website.
Distribution, so this is the term given to
the name of the content distribution network.
And that consists of a collection of edge locations,
and there are two types of distribution.
So firstly, we have Web Distribution,
so that's used just for websites, so think HTTP, HTTPS,
and we also have RTMP, which is Real-Time Messaging Protocol
and that is used for streaming audio, video, and data
over the Internet, so just think media streaming.
So, CloudFront can be used to deliver you entire website
including dynamic, static, streaming,
and interactive content using AWS's global network
of edge locations.
So, that means requests for your content,
they are automatically routed to your nearest edge location,
and content gets delivered to you
with the best possible performance.
So, as we talked about, it could be used to
optimize performance for users,
so geographically distributed users all accessing
the same website in London backed by S3,
so instead of sending requests to that website in London,
users will access their local edge location
and hopefully the website will be cached there,
and if it isn't, then the edge location will use
Amazon's network to grab the files that have been requested,
and the next time the user tries to access them
they will be cached within the edge location.
So, CloudFront is optimized to work
with lots of other AWS Services,
so S3 we've already talked about, EC2,
so you could use EC2 to run your own website
if you wanted to.
It's also optimized to work with Elastic Load Balancing,
and Route 53, and it also works seamlessly
with any non-AWS origin server,
so that means you could just really use your own server,
within your own data center,
and CloudFront will still work with that.
For the two Cloudfront Distribution types,
we have the Web Distribution used for websites,
so that's HTTP, and HTTPS.
For a Web Distribution, the origin or the place
where your original files are stored can be either
an S3 bucket, or an HTTP/HTTPS server.
You cannot serve Adobe Flash multimedia content
from a Web Distribution and for that
you're going to need an RTMP Distribution.
So, that allows you to stream media files
using the Adobe Media Server,
and the Adobe Real-Time Messaging Protocol,
so streaming audio, video, and data, over the Internet.
And we can also use CloudFront to accelerate
the transfer of files into S3,
and that is called S3 Transfer Acceleration.
And Transfer Acceleration enables fast, easy,
and secure transfers of your files,
over long distances between your end users and an S3 bucket.
So, this takes advantage of CloudFront's
globally distributed edge locations.
And as the data arrives at an edge location,
it is then routed into S3 over an optimized network path.
So, it's a much faster way
for you to upload your files into S3.
So, let's just have a look at an example.
So, in this example we have our S3 bucket
located here in London, and again,
we've got our users geographically distributed,
and just imagine all these users need to upload
a load of files into this S3 bucket.
So, instead of uploading directly to the bucket in London,
which could take a long time for some of the users
who are furthest away, they can upload their file
into the CloudFront edge location.
And then from there, the edge location
will transfer that file into the London bucket
using an optimized network route.
So, using the fast networks within AWS.
So, let's take a look at some of our exam tips.
Firstly, remember the terminology.
The edge location, and this is the location
where your content is going to be cached.
It's separate to an AWS Region or AWS Availability zone.
It's not the same thing, and in fact,
we have many more edge locations than we do
regions and availability zones.
The origin, so remember that's the location
of all your files, the origin of all the files
that the CDN is going to be distributing,
and this may be an S3 Bucket, an EC2 Instance,
a load balancer, or Route 53.
Distribution, so this is the name given to
the content delivery network, and that consists
of a collection of different edge locations.
And we have two different types of distribution,
we have the Web Distribution, which is used for websites,
and RTMP which is used for media streaming.
Edge locations are not just read only, i.e.,
you can put an object to them
and have that transferred into S3.
Edge locations are also used by S3 Transfer Acceleration
to reduce latency for S3 uploads, and objects are cached,
so they're cached for the lifetime of a Time To Live value.
And when that Time To Live value expires,
then the object is wiped from the cache.
And you can clear cached objects at any time,
but you will be charged.
So, that's the end of the CloudFront lecture,
and our next lecture is going to be a lab,
and we are going to be setting up
our own CloudFront content delivery network.
So, if you got time, please join me in the next lecture.