Hello Cloud Gurus
and welcome to this lecture.
And, this lecture is all about S3 Security.
So, it's going to be a really, really quick lecture.
We're just going to cover off some of the main access
control mechanisms that you get with S3.
So, the different ways that we can allow access
to S3 buckets.
And then after this lecture,
we're going to go straight into a lab.
So, we're going to show you how to actually configure
some of these access control mechanisms
that we've been talking about.
Now, but default, all newly created buckets within S3
are private.
And this means that only the owner of the bucket
gets access to the bucket and its contents.
So, only the owner can upload new files, read files,
delete files, et cetera.
And there is no public access by default.
But, we might want to allow other accounts
to access our objects within our S3 buckets.
We might want to make our bucket publicly accessible
for example.
Or, we might have a certain user or set of users,
or group of users,
for which we want to enable access to put new objects
or read the objects within our S3 bucket.
And the way that we can do that is using Bucket Policies.
And Bucket Policies are applied at a bucket level.
So, this means that the permissions granted by that policy
applied to all of the objects within the bucket.
You can't attach a Bucket Policy to an individual object.
But the Bucket Policies are really good for
those situations where you have a group of files
and they all need to be accessed by the same people.
Now, our Bucket Policies are written in JSON
which is the JavaScript objects notation language.
So, it's based on JavaScript.
But, it's pretty human readable.
It consists of a list of key value pairs,
and they actually provide a policy generator tool.
So, that means that they make it really easy for you,
you don't have to start writing JavaScript.
You can use this policy generator tool
to actually build out the policies that you need.
And this is something that we're going to take a look at
in the next lab.
Moving on to Access Control Lists.
So, these are applied at an object level.
That means that we can apply different permissions
for different objects within a bucket.
So, we can define which accounts or groups are
granted access.
And also the type of access.
So, read, write, or full control.
So we can grant a different type of access to
different objects within the same bucket.
So it really gives you that fine grained access control.
And this is really good for situations where you'd
want to have different permissions
for different objects
for different users and groups.
Then Access Control Lists is the one to use.
And if you want to track the different access requests
that are being made to a S3 object,
you can configure access logs.
And these are logs which will log all the different
requests made to the S3 bucket every time a user makes a
request to upload a file or read a file or delete a file.
All of those activities will get logged into the access log.
And this log could actually be written
into another S3 bucket.
So that covers off the main mechanisms for access control
within S3.
And don't worry if it doesn't make too much sense right now,
the best way to learn it really is to start configuring
some of this in the console.
And that's exactly what we're going to do next.
So, if you have time, please join us in the next lecture,
and we're going to be logging into the AWS console and
actually configuring some of this access control.