Hello, Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture and in this lecture,
we're going to have a go at creating an EBS volume.
So if you'd like to join me in the console, we'll get started and of course,
if you have access to the cloud playground,
then you can do this using one of our sandbox accounts,
or you can use your own AWS free tier account.
So here I am in the console and I'm going to head to services,
select EC2,
and I'm actually going to create a new EC2 instance so that we can attach our
volume to it after we've created it.
So just scroll down to launch instance,
we're going to launch an Amazon Linux2 AMI.
So just select that one and we're going to accept all the defaults this time.
So just go straight to review and launch and hit launch.
I'm going to give my key pair a name and download it
and hit launch instances.
So there is my instance,
and I'm just going to make a note of which availability zone this is located
in. So it's in US East 1e
and when we create our volume,
we need to do it in the same availability zone so that we can attach it to
our instance. So now I'm going to head back to the EC2 dashboard,
hit two volumes, and create volume.
So here on the volume type,
this is where we can select which type of volume we want to create.
So we've got GP2 IO1, sd1
and st1 and they're also showing the magnetic legacy option
as well and here you can set the size of your volume and for
GP2, of course,
you get a baseline of three IOPs per gig with a minimum of a
100 IOPs and if you actually change the size of this volume,
you'll see it will calculate the number of IOPs below.
So that's pretty fun to have a play around with.
So I'm just going to change that for now and set it for 10.
Now for availability zone. I need to change this to US East 1a,
but you change it to whichever availability zone your instance has been created
in and this is quite interesting.
So you can actually create a volume based on a snapshot
and a snapshot is a point in time, copy of another EBS volume.
So it's a bit like a backup and if you create a volume based on a
snapshot,
then the new volume will be an exact replica of the original
volume that was used to create the snapshot, including any encryption.
So if we select encryption down here,
it will give us this message and this is a real tongue twister.
So I'll try and say it right?
So volumes that are created from encrypted snapshots are
automatically encrypted and volumes that are created from
unencrypted snapshots are automatically unencrypted
and I challenge you to say that sentence out loud and see if you can get it
right the first time,
because I definitely couldn't but the point is that if you create a
volume from an encrypted snapshot,
then your volume is going to be the same. So it's also going to be encrypted.
However, if no snapshot is selected,
then you can choose whether to encrypt the volume or not.
So if you don't select a snapshot up here,
then the choice is yours encrypt or do not encrypt.
So now I'm going to scroll down to the bottom and hit create volume,
and there is our volume.
So I'm just going to close that and here is my volume.
You can see that the site is available and then I've got a couple of others here
that are showing as in use,
because they are already attached to an EC2 instance
and you can see the EC2 instance IDs here. Now,
if we want to attach a volume to an EC2 instance,
just make sure you've got it selected, thank go to actions,
select attach volume and if you click in this box next to instance,
it will show you any instances which are running in at the same availability
zone. So I'm going to select my instance
and hit attach and it is as simple as that.
So now my volume state is showing as in use and it's attached to this host.
So that is everything I wanted to show you about creating an EBS volume and
attaching it to a host and the main thing that I want you to remember from this
lecture is that if you create a volume from an encrypted snapshots,
then you are going to end up with an encrypted volume and vice versa.
If the snapshot was unencrypted,
then the volume that you create from it is also going to be unencrypted.
So that is the end of this lecture. If you have any questions,
please let me know. If you all working in your own free tier account,
please remember to delete your EC2 instance,
and also remember to delete any volumes you've created as well. Otherwise,
feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.