Hello,
Cloud Gurus and welcome to this lecture where we're going to explore
the various pricing options or pricing models
for EC2. So let's take a look. Now,
there are a few different pricing models with EC2.
So let's start with on demand, which is the default.
So with on demand, you pay by the hour or the second,
depending on the type of instance you're running.
So you only pay for the time when you are running your instance,
we then have reserved instances and with reserved instances,
you can reserve EC2 capacity for either one or three
years.
So you commit to using a certain amount of EC2 instances of a
specific type for either one or three years and in return for making
this commitment,
you get up to a 72% discount on the hourly charge and
reserved instances operate at a regional level.
So say for example,
you commit to using 10 instances of type T3.large in
the US East one region.
If you spin up up to 10 instances within us East one,
that will be covered by your reserved capacity but if you launch an instance in
a different region, that's not going to be covered by your reservation.
So you won't get the discount on instances that you spin up outside the region
of your reserved capacity. We then have spot instances,
and this is where you can purchase unused capacity at a massive discount of
up to 90% and the price fluctuates according to
supply and demand.
So you set a maximum price that you're willing to pay for the instance,
but the catch is that as soon as the price exceeds your maximum,
the instance will be terminated or hibernated depending on the options that
you've chosen. So you get a massive discount,
but it's not really suitable for every application and then
finally we have the dedicated option.
So this is a physical server running EC2 instances,
and it's dedicated for your use,
and it's actually the most expensive option, but it's a good option.
If you have software licenses, which are tied to physical hardware,
or if you have very strict compliance requirements,
which state that you cannot use multitenant hardware for your application.
So which option should you choose? Well, it all depends on your application.
So for on demand instances where you've got the low cost and flexibility
of EC2 without any upfront payment or longterm commitment,
this is great for applications with short term or spiky or
unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted and it's also really good for
testing the water.
So for applications which are being developed or tested for the very
first time,
so on demand is the most flexible option moving on to reserved
instances.
So these are great for applications with predictable usage patterns.
So applications with a steady state or very predictable usage.
They're also really good for applications which have very specific capacity
requirements and you want to be sure that the capacity is always going to be
available in the region that you want when you need it.
Reserved instances are also really good if you can pay upfront and if you make
upfront payments with your reserved instances,
then you can get the benefit of even more discounts and there are three types
of reserved instance. So first of all,
we've got the standard reserved instance where you can reserve a set quantity of
a certain instance type and they claim you can get up to a 72%
discount, but in practice,
I've never been able to get it anywhere near that much and I think it all
depends on the combination of components and options you put into the pricing
calculator and how much you're willing to pay upfront.
Now one restriction with standard reserved instances is that if you reserve
site 10 T3.large instances for one year,
and then your application requirements change,
you may need to change to a bigger instance,
but with standard reserved instances, you cannot change your mind.
So that is where convertible reserved instances come in and
with these,
you get up to 54% of the on demand price and the
great thing with these is that you get the option to change to a different
reserved instance type of equal or greater value.
So if we want to move our application from T3.large to T3.extra-large,
we can convert our reservation to any other instance,
type of equal or greater value and don't worry too much
at the moment about these instance types and instance names.
We're going to go through all of the different instance types in the next
lecture. And lastly, we have scheduled reserved instances.
So these allow you to launch a reserved instance within a time frame that
you specify and this allows you to match your capacity reservation
to a predictable recurring schedule,
which only requires either a fraction of a day, week, or month.
So this allows you to schedule your reservation for a window of time,
which suits you. So think about maybe a phone company,
calculating customer bills at the end of each month.
So they might want to use it scheduled reserved instances because they know
they're always going to use a fairly predictable,
large amount of capacity for a few days at the end of every single month
and they can use scheduled reserved instances to save some money on their AWS
bill.
So moving on to spot instances and with spot instances,
if you remember you set a maximum price that you're willing to pay for the
instance,
and then the actual price fluctuates with supply and demand,
and if the price exceeds your maximum,
then your instance can either be terminated or hibernated depending on the
options that you selected. So when would we use spot instances? Well,
they're really great for applications which have a flexible start and end time.
They also work really well for applications that are really only feasible at
very low compute prices.
So you can take advantage of the low cost of spot instances,
and they're also suitable for applications or users with an urgent
need for large amounts of additional computing capacity,
which is temporary. So it's not an ongoing requirement,
it's just for a specific job or workload.
So you might use it spot instances for workloads like image rendering or
parallel workloads like genomic sequencing or even running calculations
for algorithmic trading engines,
and then finally dedicated hosts. So when would we use it these?
Well, these are really great for meeting compliance requirements or regulatory
requirements, which may not support a multitenant architecture.
They're also great if you're in a situation where you've got software licensing,
which doesn't support multitenancy or cloud deployments,
and you can purchase them on either an on demand or reserved basis and with
on demand, they're purchased hourly and with the reserved option,
you can get up to a 70% discount off the on demand price.
Now, in addition to these pricing options,
they've also introduced something called savings plans,
which is another way to save money on your AWS bill.
So you can save up to 72% on all AWS compute usage,
regardless of instance type or region and the way it works is that you
commit to one or three years to use a specific amount of compute
power, and it's measured in dollars per hour,
rather than an instance type or size,
et cetera and it's super flexible because it doesn't just cover EC2.
It also includes serverless technologies like Lambda and Fargate.
And of course,
Lambda is the very first serverless technology allowing you to run at your
applications in the cloud without having to worry about infrastructure and
Fargate is a serverless technology allowing you to run Docker containers once
again,
without having to worry about the underlying infrastructure and then one last
thing I wanted to show you is the AWS pricing calculator and this is
a great tool for helping you understand the various pricing options within AWS.
So I recommend you take a look at the pricing calculator and explore some of the
AWS services in there,
particularly around EC2 and the various different pricing models.
So here is the pricing calculator,
and I've included a link to this in the resources section of the course.
So you just head to create estimate and you can select a service
or you can search for it.
So I'm just going to search for EC2 hit configure.
And this is where you can create a cost estimate for your EC2 instances.
So first of all, make sure your region is correct, scroll down,
and then you can select the specification of your EC2 instance,
and you can select the capacity you want either in terms of CPUs or memory,
or you can search for instances by name,
and here are all our instance types.
So I'm going to go in and select T3.medium.
I'm going to have a quantity of 10,
and this is where you can choose the pricing strategy.
So let's start off with on demand instances
and if we scroll down the page,
our total monthly cost for 10 servers is going to be
$333.
So what happens if I change that to standard reserved instances?
I'm going to reserve for one year with no upfront payments
and straight away my cost has reduced to 220.
So what if I make my reservation three years,
I get an even bigger discount. So that's over a 50% discount.
So I would definitely suggest that you spend some time playing around with the
pricing calculator and getting to know the different pricing options.
And while all these cost saving approaches are wonderful.
One of the best ways to control costs in AWS is to
remember to turn off the things that you no longer need.
So don't leave services running if you don't need them anymore and I love this
cartoon. It's a good reminder to us all,
to remember to terminate instances,
if we're no longer using them and especially if you're working in your own
AWS account,
it's really good practice to decommission everything as soon as you finished
playing with it to avoid any unnecessary costs.
So let's move on to my exam tips for EC2 pricing
options. So there's on demand,
which allows you to pay by the hour or second,
depending on the type of instance you run and this is a great option for
flexibility. We've also got reserved instances,
which allows you to reserve capacity for one or three years where the discount
they claim of up to 72% on the hourly charge. And this is great.
If you've got known fixed requirements,
we then have spot instances,
which allows you to purchase unused capacity at a discount of up to 90%
prices fluctuate with supply and demand,
and you set your maximum that you're willing to pay and if the price goes over
the maximum, they're going to either hibernate or terminate your instance,
depending on the options that you selected and this is great for applications
with flexible start and end times,
but it's not so great for applications which need to be up and running all the
time and then finally there is the dedicated option,
and this is where you get a physical EC2 server dedicated for your use
and it's really great if you've got server bound licenses that you want to
reuse, or if you have compliance requirements,
which are preventing you from using a multi-tendency.
So that is the end of this lecture. If you have any questions,
please do let me know. Otherwise,
please join me in the next lecture where we're going to take a look at all the
different EC2 instance types that are available, and there are loads of them.
So I'll see you in the next lecture. Thank you.