Hello,
Cloud Gurus and welcome to this section of the course where we're going to take
a look at one of the most popular services that AWS has to
offer, which is EC2.
So what is EC2? Well,
it stands for elastic compute cloud,
and it's abbreviated to EC2,
so that is where the name comes from and EC2
is secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud.
So what does that actually mean? Well,
it's basically like a virtual machine only it's hosted in AWS instead
of being in your own data center and it's been designed to make
web scale cloud computing, easier
for developers and with EC2,
you can have the capacity you want when you need it and you
are in complete control of your own instances.
So you get root or admin access to your own instances
and when we say instances,
it just basically means the virtual machine that you are running in AWS.
So why is EC2 so-called? Well,
when AWS introduced EC2,
it was really a game changer for the IT industry for a number of
reasons and AWS led a big change in the entire industry by being the
very first cloud provider and by introducing EC2 as the
first virtual machine running in a public cloud.
So with EC2, you pay only for what you use.
So you only pay for the time when your EC2 instance is up and running.
So it's a pay as you go model and this really changed the economics of
computing and with EC2,
you should be able to avoid a lot of the wasted capacity,
which is inherent in physical servers and this is because with
EC2 you can select the capacity that you need right now,
and you can grow and shrink as, and when you need. So over time,
as the demands on your application change,
you can grow and shrink your infrastructure to suit the requirements of your
business and your applications and before EC2 came on the scene,
if you had a new application and you had to purchase new physical servers,
you'd have to estimate how much capacity you were going to need and when you're
buying a physical server,
this is really a longterm investment for maybe three to five years or sometimes
even longer. So when I was working as a solutions architect,
a lot of the time we would over specify the physical servers with the
expectation that the application will grow into it.
So think of all those companies all around the world,
filling their data centers with huge servers and all this wasted
capacity,
but the real massive benefit for a lot of companies is that with cloud
computing,
you can have your servers up and running in minutes rather than waiting months
and that's not a joke. I mean, if you've ever worked in a large organization,
you'll know exactly what I'm talking about,
because it can seriously take a minimum of three months at least to get a
new server up and running in your data center. So why is that? Well,
firstly, after getting approval to spend the money,
you've got to then make the purchase and then you might wait maybe two or four
weeks for the hardware to become available and to be delivered once it's
actually been delivered,
we've then got to get it physically installed in the data center.
So our poor data center engineer has got to find a space in the data center
to install our server.
We've then got to patch our network cables and get it on the right network and
then our sys ops team will install the operating system along with any
monitoring and backup and security hardening software as well and all of
this takes time.
So there's many stages we have to go through before we can actually install
an application on our server and this is why in some organizations,
depending on the level of change control and approval process involved
at each of these stages, in some cases,
it can take three months or longer to purchase a new server and have it up and
running and ready for you to install your application.
So there's got to be a better way and for me,
this is the big game changer with EC2.
You can be up and running in minutes instead of waiting
months. So onto my exam tips for EC2 just remember EC2 is like
a virtual machine and it's hosted by AWS instead of being in your
own data center and the great thing about it is that you can select the capacity
that you need right now. You can grow and shrink whenever you need,
you pay only for what you use and you get your infrastructure and it's ready to
install your application in minutes rather than waiting months.
So that is the end of this lecture. If you have any questions,
please do let me know. Otherwise feel free to move on to the next lecture.
Thank you.