Hello,
Cloud Guru and welcome to this lecture where we're going to take a closer look
at
EBS volumes and EBS stands for elastic block
store and EBS volumes are storage volumes,
which you can attach to your
EC2 instances. So here is our EC2 instance and here is our EBS
volume attached to our EC2 instance.
So they are storage volumes or disks.
So just think of the disk in your laptop or in your local computer
and when you first launch an EC2 instance,
it has at least one EBS volume attached,
and this is where your operating system is going to be installed.
So Windows or Linux,
and then you can add more volumes depending on the needs of your application.
So how do you use these EBS volumes? Well,
you use them the same way you would any system disk,
for example, you could create a file system and store some files in there,
maybe configuration files or any files you like.
You could use an EBS volume to run a database,
run an operating system, store any type of data that you like,
and you can install your applications on them as well.
So let's take a look at some of the features of EBS and one of the great
things about it is that it's designed for mission critical
production workloads,
but what makes it so great for production and mission critical workloads?
Well,
one of the great things about it is that it's highly available and when you
provision an EBS volume,
it's going to be automatically replicated within a single availability
zone, which protects against hardware failures.
Now you don't need to configure this yourself.
It's something that happens under the hood.
So it's highly available and replicated by default
and in addition to that, EBS volumes are also highly scalable.
So you can dynamically increase the capacity and even change the type of
volume with zero downtime and zero performance impact for your live
systems. And I think that's pretty cool.
So while we're talking about capacity and volume types,
let's run through the different options that are available and you'll need to
understand the different types of EBS volume for the exam.
So let's begin with general purpose SSD, and this is an SSD,
so it's a solid state disk,
and it's also known as GP2 and with general purpose GP2 you get
a balance of price and performance.
So it's a reasonable price and a reasonable performance,
and you get three IOPs or IO operations per second,
per gigabytes,
up to a maximum of 16,000 IOPs per volume
and GP2 volumes,
which are smaller than one terabyte can burst up to 3000 IOPs
and these are great for boot volumes or for development and test and for
applications, which are not latency sensitive,
but what if you need greater performance than 16,000 IOPs?
What if your application is latency sensitive? Well,
that's where provisioned IOPs SSDs,
or IO1 comes in and provisioned IOPs or IO1.
This is the highest performance option, and it's also the most expensive.
So with IO1 that you get up to 64,000 IOPs per volume,
and this is the one to use.
If you need more than 16,000 IOPs for your application, you know,
maybe you're installing an off the shelf application,
which specifies in the system requirements that you need greater than at 16,000
IOPs. Then this is the one to choose,
or if you've developed your own application and in testing,
you discovered that you need at greater than 16,000 IOPs.
Then this is the one to go for.
So these are designed for IO intensive applications.
So think large databases and latency sensitive workloads.
Now the third type of EBS volume that you'll need to know about is throughput
optimized HDD. And this is a hard disk drive.
It's an HDD, it's not an SSD,
so it's not a solid state drive and these are known as st1 and these are
great for storing huge amounts of data. So think mountains of data,
but you want to access the data frequently and the performance of
throughput optimized EBS volumes is measured in mgabytes per
second, per terabyte. So with these,
you get a baseline throughput of 40 mgs per second,
per terabyte.
You've also got the ability to burst to up to 250 mgs per
second, per terabyte,
with a maximum throughput of 500 mgs per second per volume.
So when would we use these kind of EBS volumes? Well,
these are great for frequently accessed throughput intensive workloads.
So think workloads like big data, data warehouses,
ETL. So extract, transform,
and load operations and log processing.
So think large amounts of data that you are accessing frequently,
and you want high performance as well and these cannot be a boot volume.
So AWS will not allow you to select one of these as a boot volume
and then finally we have the lowest cost option,
and this is cold HDD, and it's also known as sc1.
So sc1 has a baseline at throughput of 12,
make per second per terabyte with the ability to burst up to 80 mg per
second,
per terabyte with a maximum throughput of 250 mg per
second per volume.
So it's nowhere near as performance as the throughput optimized st1,
but it is a really good choice for colder data.
So data which requires fewer scans per day and it's also
good for applications which need the lowest cost and for which performance is
not a factor.
So if you're running a job which could happen overnight or across a few days,
which involves accessing lots of data and you don't necessarily need a super
fast response, then this could be a good option.
And also the cold HDD EC2 cannot be a boot volume.
Now you might be wondering why are we suddenly talking about IOPs and
throughput? And what is the difference? Well,
IOPs stands for IO operations per second,
and it measures the number of read and write operations per second and it's a
really important metric for applications,
which are performing quick transactions.
So think low latency applications and transactional workloads.
So think about reading and writing to a database and making multiple changes
to the data and each of these changes can be thought of as a
transaction.
So this is all about the ability to action reads and writes very quickly
and if you do have an application like that,
and particularly if you have an application which requires greater than
16,000 IOPs, then you should definitely choose provisioned IOPs,
SSD IO1 as your EBS volume.
So what about throughput? Well,
throughput measures the number of bits read or written per second,
and this is an important metric for large data sets,
large IO sizes and complex queries.
So think about complex queries and large amounts of data,
maybe reporting applications,
long running jobs involving large amounts of data,
maybe a business intelligence application comparing year on year financial
performance, using large amounts of data, that kind of thing.
So it's all about the ability to deal with large data sets and if
you have an application with those kinds of requirements and with a specific
requirement around throughput and the number of bits read or written per second,
then throughput optimized HDD or st1 that is the one to choose.
So let's take a look at my exam tips for elastic block store.
So just EBS volumes are highly available and scalable storage
volumes, which you can attach it to an EC2 instance.
And there are four different types available, starting off with GP2,
which is the general purpose SSD and this is suitable for boot disks and general
applications and it's capable of up to 16,000 IOPs per volume but
if you need greater than 16,000 IOPs, then you need to go for IO1,
which is provisioned IOPs SSD and this is suitable for online transaction
processing and latency sensitive applications.
You've got up to 64,000 IOPs per volume,
and this is a high performance option and it's also the most expensive.
Now in terms of the throughput optimized options,
we've got st1 also known as throughput optimized HDD,
and this is suitable for big data, data warehouses and ETL.
The maximum throughput is measured in mgs per second,
per volume and the max is 500 megabytes per second per volume
and it cannot be of boot volume.
Only the SSD options can be a boot volume. And then finally,
we've got the lowest cost option, which is cold HDD,
also known as SC1,
which has a maximum throughput of 250 mgs per second per
volume and this is suitable for less frequently access data and
applications for which performance is not really an issue and you don't mind
waiting a longer time for the results of your queries and once again,
it cannot be a boot volume and it is also the lowest cost.
So if you have an application which is cost sensitive,
but it's not particularly sensitive to performance,
then this could be a good option.
So that is everything that you should need to know about the different types of
EBS volume. If you have any questions, please let me know. Otherwise,
feel free to move on to the next lecture. Thank you.